+++
title = "opyright Repatriation and Restitution"
date = "2022-12-12"
author = "Benjamin Schreiber"
description = "Final Essay, Copyright Repatriation and Restitution"
+++

From art being created on the canvas of a public building, complicating the laws of copyright, to the repatriation of stolen artworks to Native American communities, the class modules "Old and New," "Placement and Displacement," and "Copyright, Repatriation, and Restitution" explore the necessity of copyright and the shortcomings of the repatriation and restitution of cultural pieces.

Copyright is a legal concept that gives the creator of a creative work exclusive rights to control the use and distribution of that work (6). This means that the copyright holder has the right to decide how the work is used. Copyright is typically granted to creative works such as books, music, and forms of art. In the United States, copyright is automatically granted to the creator of a work as soon as it is fixed in a tangible form (6). This means that you do not need to register your work or apply for copyright to be protected by copyright law. However, registering your work can provide additional legal protections against infringement. Repatriation refers to the return of indigenous art and cultural objects that were taken from their communities and are now held in museums or private collections. The process of repatriation can be complex and controversial, as it often involves questions of ownership, provenance, and cultural heritage. Finally, Restitution refers to returning art to its original owner.

These ideas of copyright, repatriation and restitution all exist to empower the original owners of invaluable works of art or items that hold immense cultural significance. Repatriation and restitution are important because they recognize the cultural and historical significance of the objects in question and seek to restore them to their rightful owners. This can help preserve cultural heritage and prevent it from being lost or damaged. It can also help to acknowledge and address the harm that has been done to the communities from which the objects were taken. Furthermore, repatriation and restitution can serve as a form of reconciliation and can help build stronger relationships between different cultures and communities.

Copyright, repatriation, and restitution can be legally interconnected, as the return of a work of art or cultural object to its country of origin may also implicate the rights of the copyright holder. Magazine, Smithsonian. In some cases, an artist's work may be considered cultural heritage and be subject to repatriation. In this situation, the copyright status of the work may be relevant, as the artist or their descendants may hold the copyright and would need to permit the work to be repatriated. However, in some cases, copyright can harm indigenous communities by "bypassing the cultural protocols that might exist in how the material might be used," explains Jane Anderson. (1)

An example of repatriation can be found in the article "Over 9,000 Years Later, Kennewick Man Will Be Given a Native American Burial." (2), which describes the legal battle over ancient remains ("The Kennewick Man") between the indigenous tribes of Washington and a museum. Ultimately, native American DNA was discovered, returning the deceased to the indigenous tribes, who held a proper burial. This case describes repatriation, and the aforementioned legal battle involved laws that forego ownership or copyright.

An artist famous for complicating copyright laws by using public and/or private buildings as their canvas is Banksy. As a street artist, Banksy is not protected by copyright laws in the same way that more traditional artists may be. Street art is often considered a form of vandalism, which means that the artist does not have the same legal rights to their work as they would if they had created it on canvas or paper in a studio. Because the art was created on public property without permission, the owner of the property could potentially have the right to remove or destroy the artwork. In addition, as an anonymous figure, claiming copyright is further complicated. Full Colour Black, a greeting card company, famously challenged the copyright by selling Banksy's work on their product, winning in European courts (3).

Another artist, Alexey Kondakov, takes advantage of copyright, editing classical paintings with modern light. Classical paintings are generally considered to be in the public domain, which means that they are not protected by copyright laws. This is because the copyright on most works created before 1923 has expired, and the works have entered the public domain. This means that anyone can reproduce, distribute, or display classical paintings without permission from the artist or their heirs. Using the copyright laws, Alexey Kondakov can create his works from the paintings, even gain his copyright in the process, or sell the new original work (4,5).

Works Cited:

Copyright Law and Public Domain: How They Affect Native Communities | The Sustainable Heritage Network, <https://sustainableheritagenetwork.org/digital-heritage/copyright-law-and-public-domain-how-they-affect-native-communities>. Accessed 12 Dec. 2022.

“Over 9,000 Years Later, Kennewick Man Will Be Given a Native American Burial.” Smithsonian.com, Smithsonian Institution, 28 Apr. 2016, <https://www.smithsonianmag.com/smart-news/over-9000-years-later-kennewick-man-will-be-given-native-american-burial-180958947/>

Shaw, Anny. “Not Laughing Now: Banksy Loses Second Trademark Case over Famous Monkey Image.” The Art Newspaper - International Art News and Events, The Art Newspaper - International Art News and Events, 28 Sept. 2021, <https://www.theartnewspaper.com/2021/05/20/not-laughing-now-banksy-loses-second-trademark-case-over-famous-monkey-image>

“About Artworks, Pictures of Artworks... and the Possibility of Copying Them.” IP Helpdesk, 13 Dec. 2021, <https://intellectual-property-helpdesk.ec.europa.eu/news-events/news/about-artworks-pictures-artworks-and-possibility-copying-them-2021-12-13_en>
Barnes, Sara. “Artist Superimposes Subjects of Classical Paintings into Modern Day Kiev.” My Modern Met, 16 June 2016, <https://mymodernmet.com/alexey-kondakov-superimposed-art-history-kiev/>.
Copyright Law and Public Domain: How They Affect Native Communities | The Sustainable Heritage Network, <https://sustainableheritagenetwork.org/digital-heritage/copyright-law-and-public-domain-how-they-affect-native-communities>. Accessed 12 Dec. 2022.
